Docs: Motoko docs revisions & restructure (#4494)
dfinity/motoko: doc/md/getting-started/dev-env.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Developer environment

## Overview

> To develop and deploy Motoko canister smart contracts, you will need a developer environment that contains the Motoko compiler and base library. It is recommended to use the IC SDK, which includes Motoko, along with `dfx`, a command-line tool used to create, build, and deploy canisters on ICP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To develop and deploy Motoko canister smart contracts, you will need a developer environment that contains the Motoko compiler and base library. It is recommended to use the [IC SDK](https://github.com/dfinity/sdk#readme), which includes Motoko, along with `dfx`, a command-line tool used to create, build, and deploy canisters on ICP.
```

Developer environments come in several types and formats, making developing flexible and accessible.

## Cloud environments

> Cloud developer environments, such as Gitpod or GitHub Codespaces, are browser-based developer environments that can be configured with the necessary tools to develop Motoko code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/) and [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) are browser-based development environments that can be used to build, test, and run Motoko smart contracts. 

Here are some starter projects for online Motoko canister development:

* [ICP Hello World Motoko](https://github.com/dfinity/icp-hello-world-motoko#readme)
* [Vite + React + Motoko](https://github.com/rvanasa/vite-react-motoko#readme)
```

Learn more about [Gitpod](/docs/current/developer-docs/developer-tools/ide/gitpod) and [GitHub Codespaces](/docs/current/developer-docs/developer-tools/ide/codespaces) for Motoko development.

## Container environments

Developers may want to setup a containerized environment for Motoko and other ICP-related development. Container environments are especially useful for Windows-based systems, since `dfx` is not natively supported on Windows.

Learn more about [developer containers](/docs/current/developer-docs/developer-tools/ide/dev-containers) and [Docker containers](/docs/current/developer-docs/developer-tools/ide/dev-containers#using-docker-directly) for Motoko development.

## Motoko playground

> Motoko playground is a browser-based developer environment that allows for temporary deployment and testing of canister smart contracts. Motoko playground can also be run locally, or it can be utilized through the `dfx deploy --playground` command via the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Motoko playground](https://play.motoko.org/) is a browser-based developer environment that allows for temporary deployment and testing of canister smart contracts. Motoko playground can also be utilized through the `dfx deploy --playground` command via the CLI.
```

CC @chenyan-dfinity

Canisters deployed to the Motoko playground use borrowed resources from a canister pool and are limited to a deployment length of 20 minutes. Therefore, the playground is not recommended for long-term development.

Learn more about the [Motoko playground](/docs/current/developer-docs/developer-tools/ide/playground).

## Local developer environment

Before you start developing Motoko, verify the following:

- [x] You have an internet connection and access to a shell terminal on your local macOS or Linux computer.

- [x] You have a command line interface (CLI) window open. This window is also referred to as the 'terminal' window.

- [x] You have downloaded and installed the IC SDK package as described in the [installing the IC SDK](/docs/current/developer-docs/getting-started/install/) page.

> - [x] You have a code editor installed. The [VSCode IDE](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) is a popular choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [x] You have a code editor installed. The [VS Code IDE](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) (with the [Motoko extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dfinity-foundation.vscode-motoko)) is a popular choice.
```
